# The ugly Math

 Scale comparisonD&D Companion set dominion rules use 24 miles hexagons for its rules. Birthright only offered this guideline: A domain is built upon 1 or more provinces and each of them is 1000-1500 square miles.\`1 24miles hexagon \(the default BECMI size\) is 1496 square miles.1 6miles hexagon \(a common "unit" for local maps\) is around 94 square miles.1 Birthright province is almost equal to 1x "Big"-hex OR up to 17x "small" hexagons. Keep this in mind if you need to draw your domain map, you don't NEED to draw a detailed map, but it can help your players imagine their land if you can show them more than a single hex.Population Comparison BECMI uses 3 tiers of population level for a settlement and count them as families of 5 people:Civilized: 500-5000 families / hex OR 2500-12500 people. Borderland: 200-1200 families / hex OR 1000-6000 people.Wilderness: 10-100 families / hex OR 50-500 people.The sahara desert has a population density of 6:1.  The listed "civilized" areas would have a MAXIMUM of 8.33:1. It is clear that this numbers don't match with any information or estimate found in the implied setting. They are likely based on old US numbers but have no reason to be there if you are not playing in a desert.A wilderness hex has NOT enough people to provide the work power and resources needed to maintain it.Birthright, instead, assign to each province a "Level" and offer these estimates \(page 33-34\):Level 0: Wild, unsettled or untenable. Less than 1000 people \(density: 1:1 or less\)Level 1-3: rural regions, with small villages and 1-2 towns. Up to 10000 people \(density 10:1 or less\)Level 4-6: settled farmlands with small industries, and major towns up to 5000 people. Total population up to 40000 people \(density 26.6 or less, like the average pre-1400 europe\).Level 7+: Densely settled, with well developed industries and major cities. Population up to 100000 people \(density: 66.6 or so, like some european regions pre-1400, i.e. france or italy\)IMHO these estimates are more realistic and provide more interesting results when compared to the known world atlas.

